---
title: Issues
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Issues

> >

Although you can create draft items in projects for brainstorming, issues are really at the heart of projects let's see how they work an are allowed to tie to our project

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Issues

> >

GitHub issues are a way to track your work on GitHub. You don't really need projects to work with issues but they can have a special relationship together.

An Issue belongs to a repository, so before we use issues, we'll need to create a repository. The easiest way is to go to github.new. Let's add a ReadMe file and make your project private since it's really a work in progress.

Now, let's convert this item to an issue. You can do that from the table view and roadmap view by hitting the triangle icon next to the project and in the Board view it's in the  name or on the sidebar next to `convert to issue`

You can then search for the repo you just created. You can see that the item now gets a green circle. If you go back to the repo, you can see there's now an issue.

Let's click on that.

Notice that whatever you entered in your draft also appears in the issue, like your assignees, and any description you've added. Some things are not, for example the status, dates and such.

It's also saving a sort of history of the item. Notice that it records when it adds this to the project, but any assignments and your draft conversion.

It didn't record some actions like when I moved my draft to the backlog, but lets see what happens if we do now.

You can see that now added to the history. That's pretty cool. It will keep track of when things happen to an issue and by whom.

You probably noticed that issues have a few additional properties like labels, milestones, Pull Requests. Those are available in projects now. Lets go back to our table view and adding labels to our table.

Milestones allow you to keep track on when you've successfully completed a series of tasks. We'll create one called setup for our project, so we can track when we're finished setting things up. Notice that there's a completion bar under the milestone, that shows the completion ratio of the milestone. Since there's only one milestone, it's empty right now.

Since we just created the repo, we can go ahead and close this issue. I'm going to write a comment and close the issue.

The issue is now closed. Notice that a new entry appears and shows when you closed the issue. Look at milestones. It's fully green now because the milestone has a single issue that is now complete.

Go back to your project. Notice that the item now has a purple checkmark. The status has automaticallly changed to done. That's pretty cool.

If you look at the repo, and go to the Projects tab, you'll notice it's not there. You can create a repo inside a repository, but if you created the repo separately, you'll need to connect them.