---
title: GitHub Projects
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# GitHub Projects

> >

Let's create our first project and look at some of the options available. I really want to encourage you to do this on your own and follow along with your Own GitHub account.

---

# Creating a Project

- Projects Tab
  - Table
  - Board
  - Roadmap

> >

Projects live in a special section, but can have access to your entire repo. To create one, you can go to the Projects tab on your account and  click on new project.

Once you do that, you get a modal with a lot of options. You can create your project as a table, a board or a roadmap.

Tables are the classic way to work with projects, it's like a spreadsheet view with rows and columns.

Boards are created in the style of Kanban boards, a popular agile methodology structure that is really helpful for getting an overview of a project.

Roadmaps is a more traditional project management view where the timeline is visualized clearly.

You can easily move between these different views, so don't worry about which one you pick.

---

# Templates

- Backlog
- Feature

> >

There are a couple of templates available too. The backlog is a typical board view that gives you a few columns typical to what a development team might use.

The feature template is a table view desiged to allow you to track features over time.

Let's just choose a table view and ignore the templates.

---

# Interface/Shortcuts
- Project name
- Optional Tools
- Tabs
- Search


> >

The interface here is pretty subdued, but powerful.

- At the top, you can edit the name of the project
- To the right is a place with some different options: You can get insights for the project once it starts getting some activity, Next is a sidebar with options to provide a short description and a README. Let's add a quick description about the project.

The README can be much more detailed, it supports markdown and you can add images to it.

The hamburger menu shows you some additional options. Here you can go to the project settings and also make a copy of a repo as well as take a look at workflows.
- Underneath is a place for your views. Let's rename our view to default. You can just click on it and type in a new name.
- There is a place to search and filter underneath. That will be more useful once you get more tasks going.
- Then you can see the place where you can add items. Items can refer to a specific repo, but it's also a great place for drafting and brainstorming ideas for your project.

Let's add a task to create a repository for this project.
Type that in, then hit the tab. You'll find a list of people in this project you can assign this to. For the time being that will be yourself.

Hit tab again and enter a status. The default status are todo, in progress and done. These are pretty basic board status. I'll set this up as a To Do item.

Awesome, We've created our first draft, assigned it to oursevles and looked at the interface. Let's keep going.