---
title: Project Settings
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Project Settings
- Main Settings
> >

Before we get too far, let's take a look at some of the settings we can use when working with a project. You can get to it from the hamburger menu on the right.

Under the main section, you can see the project name, and our short description as well as the project README. You can also use this to make a copy of the project if you want to and at the bottom in the danger zone different settings.

The project can be private or public if you're doing like an open source that you want others to contribute to and you can manage access.

You can also close the project or delete it, but of course be careful, some of those changes are permanent.

---

# Project Access

- Privacy
- Collaborators
- Permissions

> >

This is where you can manage who has access to the project. The manage button will take you back to the bottom of the project settings.

You can also invite other collaborators to join in on your project. I'm going to add a couple of people. If you have someone you work with, you can try this yourself.

When you add someone they'll get an invitation to the project. You can control their access underneath. They can have Read, Write or Admin access like you. You can also remove them with this button.

---

# Custom Fields

> >

Every project can have a number of fields to help you manage your tasks. Fields can be of different types and by default you'll have one field called Status.

Let's create a new field to manage the due date for a task. In addition to name, you can choose a number for calculations, a date field, a Single Select field if you want the field to have sub-options or an iteration, which relates to repeatable tasks. Let's choose date for now and hit save.

Let's go back to the project view and you'll see that now we have a new column called date. You can click on that to get a date picker where you can choose a date when this task is due. I'll say today since we're going to do this soon.

If you want to take a look at how Single Selects fields work, we can take a look at the Status option. You can see that in addition to the name, we have a number of options. These relate to the status of the project. Let's add an option called backlog. That's a great place to add tasks that aren't something that needs to be done right now, but maybe an idea you've had or something you're not actively working on.

You can add a new option by typing in the name. You can then click on the edit button and change the color and add a description if you'd like.

The backlog is usually the first thing I like to see, so I'll drag it to the top of the list.

Finally, I'm going to add an iteration field. This is good for recurring tasks. I'll called this one sprints and start it today for 2 weeks.

Once you create an iteration field, you can change the timeframe by clicking on the times next to the where the 2 weeks is.

You can Also create additional fields of the default timeframe by hitting add iteration or change the timeframe with more options.

Now that we've got the basics of settings, let's move on and explore our different views.
