---
title: Views
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Views

> >

There are different ways to view your tasks using views. We created a table view to look at our data like a spreadsheet. Let's add another view for our data. 

---

# Views

> >

We'll call it Board.

Let's add a Board View so we can see our project at a glance. You can see that the board view gives you the information in a new way. The task we added earlier is in the To Do column because that is the category we assigned to it.

You can easily move these around visually. Let's move the item to the backlog. Now switch back to the default view. You can see that the status column automatically updated.

This view is missing some of the information available in table view. That's because it's meant to give you an overview and quickly change the status of the items.

To get all of the information click on the item.

This view gives you the full information about the project, you can see that there's a place where you can add a description.

Lets use it to change our status back to the to do section.

## Roadmap View

> >

Now, there's one more view type, lets create a Roadmap View.

When you do that, you'll get a notice that projects need at least one date or iteration field, which we already have.

The purpose of this view is to help you determine how things are moving along in a project. So in the date field, you can specify which field acts as the start date for the item and which acts as the target date. We'll adjust those for our project.

You have a way to zoom in and out of the range of dates, hit the arrows to navigate through the dates, or click on today to get back. 

You can also see the ability to turn on markers that corresponds to different date fields.

You can sort items, but right now it doesn't make a lot of sense with just one item.

Notice that when you start making changes to views, you see little blue dots appear. That means that the basics of the view has been modified and you can save the changes to the view. Let's hit save. You can see the blue dots go away

To get more info about an item, you can still click on it to see the sidebar.

You can also look at all the options for a view by going to the triangle by the name of the roadmap, for example.

You can choose, for example to truncate the titles, and also show the date fields next to the names.

You can make a copy of the view and configure this however you want.

There's a few options I'm skipping, because they make more sense with more items.