---
title: Starting with Issues
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Starting with Issues

> >

Let's try adding some additional issues related to our setup.
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Starting with Issues

> >

Let's try adding some items related to our setup. From the table view, I'll add a note to update the README file. If you have someone else in your team, try assigning it to someone else. We'll try adding a target date, change the status to todo, add it to our first sprint and try adding a milestone.

When you try to add a field that's related to an issue, it's going to ask you to change this to an issue. Go ahead and create the issue, then assign it a milestone.

You can also create issues first and then add them to a project. Let's try adding an issue that way.

Back to issues, you'll notice that there's one new issue and our other issue has been automatically moved to the closed tab since we closed it earlier.

Let's create an issue to add a license. I'll assign this one to myself and someone else. When you go assign someone else, you might notice that you don't have the option to assign someone else unless they have permissions for the repository, which are separate from the project. We'll take care of that after we created the issue.

This will be a part of the setup milestone. Notice that the green bar is changing as we add more issues to this milestone. Let's go ahead and add the issue.

Let's go ahead and add people to this repository.

Now, I'll add a short conversation to confer with a colleague about the license.

Once you've gone back and forth and agreed to a path forward, Let's create a license.

I'm going to create a file and type in LICENSE. Notice that a popup appears that allows you to use a template. From the list choose MIT.

Now the license text gets added to your project. Let's commit the changes.

We'll commit that to the main branch.

We can now count that item as done.